welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
margin call
an unnamed investment bank begins a mass
layoff on the trading floor during a
normal business day
among those let go as eric dale tucci
head of risk management
dale tries to speak about his current
unfinished project
first with human resources staff and
then with desk head will emerson
betany but is told that this is no
longer his concern
while being escorted out of the building
he meets one of his risk analysts
peter sullivan quinto and gives him a
usb
stick to look at with a vague
instruction to be careful
sullivan works late at night to finish
dale's project
and discovers that current volatility in
the firm's portfolio of mortgage-backed
securities
mbs has exceeded the historical
volatility levels of the positions
because of excessive leverage if the
portfolio's value decreases by 25
the loss will be greater than the value
of the firm itself and the firm will go
bankrupt
sullivan and his colleague junior
analyst seth bregman
badgley tell emerson about the situation
emerson alerts floor head sam rogers
spacey
who also returns to the office
they attempt to contact dale but the
company had shut off his phone and he
has not yet returned home
the firm's managers hold emergency
meetings in the middle of the night in
which division head jared cohen baker
chief risk management officer sarah
robertson
moore and other senior executives
discuss their options
finally ceo john told irons
is called in sullivan explains the
nature of the problem
the firm needs about a month to layer
its mbs products
so the assets stay on the company's
books longer than they might prefer
but because they are essentially
mortgages which are generally viewed as
low risk the firm has been able to push
the leverage
beyond what they would otherwise be
willing or allowed to do
told compares the situation to musical
chairs
stating that the music is about to stop
and that they would be left holding
worthless assets
sullivan using told's analogy suggests
caution
noting that the music is just slowing
and if the
music were to stop the scenario would be
considerably worse
cohen's plan is for the firm to quickly
dump all of the toxic
assets in a fire sale before the market
learns of their worthlessness
thereby limiting the firm's exposure
told favors cohen's plan but rogers
opposes it
warning that dumping all their toxic
assets and spreading the risk throughout
the financial sector will destroy the
firm's relationships with its
counterparties and [ __ ] the market
for the foreseeable
future he also warns cohen that their
customers will quickly learn of the
firm's plans once they realize that the
firm is only selling the toxic
securities but not buying any new ones
by early morning dale is found back at
his home in brooklyn
emerson tries to convince him to return
to the office
saying that the firm will not pay him
his severance and other benefits unless
he agrees to participate in their plan
but dale continues to resist emerson
also tells seth
he will probably lose his job in the
crisis but will get a large severance
while explaining to him the amoral
cyclical nature of the markets
meanwhile it is revealed that robertson
cohen
and told were aware of the risks in the
weeks leading up to the crisis
told offers robertson up as the
scapegoat putting the blame of the
crisis on her and forcing her
resignation
dale arrives apparently convinced by
told's representatives that returning
truly is in his best interests
dale and robertson are instructed to
remain in the office all day and do
nothing in return for an increase to
their severance packages
robertson expresses regret for not doing
more to prevent the crisis
with the markets yet to open tult
convinces rogers to go along with
cohen's plan
in a speech to his traders in
preparation for the fire sale
rogers warns them that by participating
they are effectively ruining their
reputations and
ending their careers in the industry but
he offers a 1.4 million dollars bonus to
those able to sell 93
of their assigned securities with
further 1.3 million
bonuses if the entire sales floor can
reach 93
as a whole as the markets open
emerson and the traders immediately
begin selling off their securities
and they arouse suspicion and anger from
their buyers as the hours pass
by the closing bell the firm has taken
tremendous losses
dumping positions for pennies on the
dollar but is successful in selling off
all the toxic assets
cohen tells rogers there will be another
round of layoffs but rodgers will keep
his job
angry that he was retained rogers
confronts told
telling him that he wants to cash in his
options and severance pay and leave the
firm
told dismisses his protests claiming
that the current crisis is no different
from previous bear markets
and that sharp gains and losses are
simply part of the economic cycle
he persuades rogers to stay with the
firm for another two years
promising that there will be a lot of
money to be made from the coming crisis
cohen brings in sullivan whom told
intends to promote
rogers reluctantly accepts told steel
but says it is only because he needs the
money
rogers buries his dog in his ex-wife's
front yard in the middle of the night
and learns from her that their son's
financial firm took a big hit but
survived the day's trading
the screen cuts to black and the credits
roll as the sound of roger's shoveling
dirt continues
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
you